Title: Alison Roman's Caramelized Shallot Pasta
Description: #quick #janefave
Source: annie diamond
Original URL: https://mostlovelythings.com/a-virtual-progressive-dinner-party/#tasty-recipes-14614-jump-target
Yield: 6
Prep: 25 minutes
Cook: 15 minutes
Total: 40 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: pasta
Image: https://s.wordpress.com/mshots/v1/https%3A%2F%2Fmostlovelythings.com%2Fa-virtual-progressive-dinner-party%2F?w=1200
Ingredients: 
	60 ml olive oil
	6 large shallots, sliced very thin
	4 garlic cloves, finely chopped
	salt and freshly ground black pepper
	1 teaspoon red pepper flakes
	1 (2-ounce) can anchovy fillets, drained, but not rinsed.
	1 (6-ounce) can tomato paste or one (4.5-ounce) tube of tomato paste
	283.5g bucatini pasta (with reserved pasta water…don’t forget)!
	fresh parsley, chopped
Instructions: 
	Heat olive oil in a heavy dutch oven (I used my Le Creuset) over medium-high heat. Add the shallots and the garlic and season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally until the shallots have softened with golden brown edges. This takes about 20 minutes
	Add red-pepper flakes and anchovies drained and straight from the can. No need to chop them. They will dissolve when they’re cooked. Stir to combine the anchovies with the shallots, about 2 minutes.
	Add tomato paste and season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly to prevent any scorching, until the tomato paste has started to cook in the oil a bit, caramelizing at the edges, and turning from bright red to a deeper rusty, brick color, about 2 minutes
	Remove the pot from the heat and transfer about half of the sauce into a jar, leaving the rest behind. (These are the leftovers that you can use for a future dish).
	Fill another large pot with salted water and bring to a boil. Cook pasta according to package instructions or until very al-dente. Save a cup of pasta water when draining. Transfer the cooked pasta to a Dutch oven with the remaining shallot mixture and one cup of pasta water. Cook over medium-high heat, tossing the pasta with the shallot mixture to coat each piece of pasta, use a wooden spoon to scrape up any bits at the bottom until the pasta is a thick sauce and is reduced and is sticky, but not saucy, 3 to 5 minutes. Divide pasta into bowls or one large serving bowl and top with a little chopped garlic and fresh parsley.
