Title: Cast Iron Stir-Fry With Avocado, Basil & Peanuts – Post Punk Kitchen – Isa Chandra Moskowitz
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: https://www.theppk.com/2011/03/cast-iron-stir-fry-with-avocado-basil-peanuts/
Yield: Serves 4
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://www.theppk.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/CastIronStir-Fry-1.jpg
Ingredients: 
	Sauce ingredients:
	2 tablespoons hoison sauce
	2 tablespoons mirin
	1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon soy sauce (or gluten free tamari)
	1 tablespoon agave syrup
	2 tablespoons water
	For the stir-fry:
	Peanut oil (in a spray bottle if you’ve got it)
	396.9g tofu, cubed (press it if you have the time, otherwise just blot with a paper towel to remove moisture)
	Salt
	Fresh black pepper
	453.6g broccoli, cut into florettes, stems sliced 1/4 inch thick
	1 small red onion, sliced into half moons
	1 bell pepper (red, yellow or orange), sliced 1/4 inch thick
	2 teaspoons fresh minced ginger
	4 cloves garlic, minced
	1 teaspoon crushed red pepper (use half that if you’re a spice wimp)
	To garnish:
	Avocado, diced
	Roasted salted peanuts
	2 big handfuls fresh basil leaves, chiffonade (or thinly sliced)
Instructions: 
	Preheat  the cast iron over high heat. On my stove, I bring it up to about 8,  but stovetops vary. In the meantime, mix together the sauce ingredients  and set aside.
	Have  at the ready a baking pan or mixing bowl to place the ingredients as  they finish cooking. I like to use a 9×13 pan so that there’s plenty of  room and things aren’t sitting on top of each other and steaming.
	Once  pan is good and hot, apply a thin layer of olive oil. Add the cubed  tofu and sprinkle with a pinch of salt and fresh black pepper. The ingredients should immediately sizzle when they hot the pan, otherwise, turn the heat up. Cook for  about 7 minutes, tossing often and spraying with oil as necessary, until  it’s nicely browned, like so:
	All sides don’t have to be evenly browned, just as long as a few of them are, you’re good to go.
	Transfer  tofu to the baking pan or bowl, and proceed with the broccoli. Apply a  thin layer of oil, toss in broccoli, add a pinch of salt and fresh black  pepper. Cook until broccoli is charred and bright green, about 5  minutes. Cover the pan between tosses, so that it cooks faster. Transfer  to the pan with the tofu.
	Now  proceed with the onion and peppers. Apply a thin layer of oil, and toss  in the onions and peppers. Spinkle with a pinch of salt and fresh black  pepper. Cook for about 3 minutes, it should be charred but still crisp.  Transfer to the pan with the tofu. Now we’ll finish it off with the  sauce.
	Add  the garlic, ginger and red pepper flakes to the cast iron pan and  drizzle with a little oil and saute until fragrant (about a minute)  being careful not to burn. Add the sauce and mix together until heated  through and bubbly, about 2 minutes.
	Now, add back all the veggies and the tofu and toss to coat. Taste for salt and seasoning.
	Serve over quinoa or brown rice, top with avocado, peanut and basil and serve hot!
