Title: Celeriac & red wine stew with Cheddar dumplings
Description: 
Source: Guru
Original URL: https://www.grahamandgreen.co.uk/about/guru/celeriac-red-wine-stew-cheddar-dumplings-anna-jones/
Yield: Serves 6-8
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://s.wordpress.com/mshots/v1/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.grahamandgreen.co.uk%2Finfo%2Fguru?w=1200
Ingredients: 
	For the stew:
	olive oil
	2 red onions, sliced
	1 head of garlic, cloves peeled but left whole
	3 carrots, peeled and cut into 2cm-thick slices
	1 kg celeriac, peeled and chopped into 2cm pieces
	1/2 a bottle of red wine
	600 ml vegetable stock
	2 bay leaves
	A few sprigs of rosemary
	1 heaped tablespoon harissa
	400g tin white beans, drained (I use haricot)
	150g cavolo nero, de-stemmed and roughly chopped
	1 teaspoon Marmite
	1 teaspoon tomato purée
	For the dumplings:
	100g celeriac saved from the stew quantity
	100g cold butter or vegan butter
	50g crumbly Cheddar or vegan Cheddar-style cheese
	200g self-raising flour
	a few sprigs of thyme
	egg yolk for brushing (optional)
	To serve:
	Greens and mustard
Instructions: 
	Heat a heavy-based lidded casserole dish on a medium-high heat and add a good glug of olive oil. Add the onions and garlic and cook for 5 minutes or so until beginning to brown.
	Meanwhile, peel and chop your veg, making sure you set aside 100g of the celeriac for the dumplings. Once the onions have had their time, add the carrots and celeriac to the pan and cook for another 5 minutes, stirring from time to time.
	Next, pour in the wine, stock, herbs, harissa and a good pinch of salt and put the lid on. Transfer to a low oven, 180°C/fan 160°C/gas 4 , and cook for 1 hour and 15 minutes.
	Make your dumpling mixture. Grate the reserved celeriac and the butter into a bowl and crumble in the cheddar in small pieces. Add the flour and strip in the leaves of the thyme. Season with salt and pepper. Add 2 tablespoons of very cold water and use your hands to bring the dumpling mixture together until you have a nice dough (if it looks dry you could add a few drops of water). Roll the dumplings into 12–16 balls.
	The stew is ready when the vegetables are soft and yielding and the wine has reduced. Stir through the beans and the greens and place the dumplings on top, brushed with a little egg yolk if you like, leaving a little room in between for them to increase in size. Cook in the oven (no lid this time) for another 25–30 minutes until browned on top. Serve with lemon-dressed greens and mustard.
