Title: Dinner Tonight: Chorizo and Potato Frittata Recipe
Description: Here in Estonia we're finally getting to see episodes of Jamie Oliver's Jamie at Home, the show which features him buzzing around his country house making delicious food and chatting about how fantastic everything in his garden tastes, showing off...
Source: Blake Royer
Original URL: https://www.seriouseats.com/jamie-oliver-chorizo-and-potato-frittata-recipe
Yield: 4
Cook: 45 minutes
Total: 45 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://s.wordpress.com/mshots/v1/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.seriouseats.com%2Fjamie-oliver-chorizo-and-potato-frittata-recipe?w=1200
Ingredients: 
	4 small waxy potatoes, scrubbed and cut into chunks
	sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
	6 large eggs
	113.4g Spanish chorizo sausage, cut into 1/2-inch thick slices
	2 sprigs of fresh rosemary, leaves picked
	2 shallots, peeled and very finely sliced
	Juice of 1 lemon
	Extra-virgin olive oil
	A bunch of fresh flat-leaf parsley, leaves picked, very roughly chopped
Instructions: 
	Bring a pot of salt water to boil and cook the potato chunks until very tender. Drain and return to their pot to steam dry. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
	Heat a large skillet (non-stick if you have one that's oven-safe) over medium-high heat and add the potato and chorizo chunks. Cook, tossing occassionally, until the chorizo has released lots of fat and the potatoes are beginning to crisp, 5 to 6 minutes.
	In the meantime, beat the eggs in a bowl with salt and pepper and slice the shallots. Add them to a bowl and cover with the lemon juice, a splash of olive oil, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Pinch with your fingers to dress and allow them to marinate, which will soften their raw harsh flavor.
	Remove the chorizo and potato chunks, leaving the oil behind, and add in the rosemary leaves. Cook them over high heat until just begining to crisp, then pour in the eggs. Add the chorizo and potato chunks to the pan, distributing evenly, and slip the pan into the oven uncovered. Cook until the eggs puff up and are just lightly brown on top. Mix up the parsley with the shallots and scatter it over the pan. Serve immediately.
