Title: DIY Ferrero Rocher Chocolates (Vegan + GF)
Description: Decadent DIY Ferrero Rocher chocolates that taste like the real thing but are vegan and gluten-free! Perfectly chocolaty and hazelnutty, with just 8 ingredients required!
Source: Minimalist Baker
Original URL: https://minimalistbaker.com/ferrero-rocher-chocolates-vegan-gluten-free/#wprm-recipe-container-89539
Yield: 12,12 (Chocolate truffles)
Prep: 50 minutes
Cook: 5 minutes
Total: 55 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://minimalistbaker.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/DIY-Ferrero-Rocher-chocolates-DECADENT-gluten-free-vegan-9-ingredients-minimalistbaker-recipe-plantbased-ferrerorocher-11.jpg
Ingredients: 
	180 ml roasted hazelnuts
	180 ml crushed corn flakes
	80 ml unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
	3 tbsp hazelnut butter*
	60 ml maple syrup
	2 tbsp coconut oil, melted ((DIVIDED))
	1/2 tsp vanilla extract
	1 healthy pinch sea salt
	160 ml semisweet vegan chocolate chips
Instructions: 
	Optional: If using raw hazelnuts, roast whole hazelnuts on a bare baking sheet at 350 F (176 C) for 12-15 minutes or until fragrant. Set aside.
	CORNFLAKES (optional to mimic the wafer layer): Using a mortar and pestle, food processor, or a plastic bag and rolling pin, crush the corn flakes until they are in small even pieces (~1/8 inch in size). Place in a small mixing bowl and set nearby.
	FUDGE LAYER: In a medium mixing bowl combine sifted cocoa powder, hazelnut butter, maple syrup, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) coconut oil (adjust amount if altering number of servings), vanilla, and salt. Gently stir with a spoon to combine into a thick paste.
	Line a plate with parchment paper and set nearby. Take ~1/2 Tbsp of the fudge mixture and form it into a rough ball. Then place a whole hazelnut in the middle, forming the fudge around it so it is hidden inside the ball. Repeat until you have 12 fudge balls with hazelnuts inside (the remaining hazelnuts will be used for coating).
	Next, coat your fudge balls in the crushed cornflakes (if using) — we found the best way to do this is to gently drop the balls into the corn flakes, rather than rolling them. Transfer your fudge/corn flake balls to the freezer for 15 minutes.
	MELTED CHOCOLATE LAYER: While the balls are chilling, add 1 inch water to a small saucepan and bring to a low boil over medium heat. Once boiling, reduce heat to low / simmer. Add the chocolate chips to a small glass or metal bowl, along with the remaining 1 Tbsp (15 ml) coconut oil (adjust amount if altering number of servings). Carefully place the bowl on top of the saucepan with simmering water. Heat, stirring occasionally with a spatula or spoon, until melted and no lumps remain (~5 minutes). You can also melt the chocolate mixture in a heat-proof bowl in the microwave in 20-second increments. Remove chocolate from heat.
	CHOPPED HAZELNUTS: Finely chop (or food process) the remaining roasted hazelnuts until they are very fine and even in size, with no pieces larger than 1/4-inch. Place in a bowl and set nearby.
	Remove the fudge balls from the freezer. Place one on a fork, and gently dunk the bottom into the melted chocolate, then use a spoon to drizzle the melted chocolate over the ball (don’t roll it, or the cornflakes will come off). Tap the fork handle on the side of the bowl to shake off excess chocolate, then place the ball in the chopped hazelnuts and generously sprinkle nuts over the top. Pick up the ball and press it into the nuts until it’s fully coated, then place back onto the parchment-lined plate. Repeat with the remaining balls until you have 12 completed Ferrero Rocher! Chill for 20 minutes in the refrigerator or until firm to the touch. Enjoy!
	Leftover Ferrero Rocher will keep for 5 days in the refrigerator, or in the freezer for up to 1 month.
