Title: Festive Vegan Vegetable Pie
Description: This rainbow-coloured vegan vegetable pie is a spectacular festive centrepiece that will take pride of place on your table this Christmas. It’s filled with rosemary-roasted potatoes, peppers, and garlic mushrooms for a tasty vegan dinner.
Source: Anthea Cheng
Original URL: https://www.veganfoodandliving.com/vegan-recipes/vegan-christmas-vegetable-pie/
Yield: 8
Prep: 1 hour
Cook: 1 hour and 30 minutes
Total: 2 hours and 30 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: xmas
Image: https://www.veganfoodandliving.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Festive-Vegan-Christmas-Pie-FB.jpg
Ingredients: 
	3 red peppers, seeded and quartered lengthways
	3 medium potatoes, thinly sliced
	oIive oil, as needed
	salt and pepper, to taste
	3 tbsp rosemary
	700g shortcrust pastry (homemade or storebought)
	flour, for dusting
	1 large brown onion, sliced
	3 garlic cloves, crushed
	60g packed spinach or kale
	150g firm tofu
	3 tbsp nutritional yeast
	0.5 tsp ground nutmeg
	250g mushrooms, thinly sliced
	2 tbsp olive oil or vegan butter, melted
Instructions: 
	Preheat the oven to 180°C/Gas Mark 4.Place the red peppers on a lined baking tray. Drizzle with olive oil and season with salt and pepper.Arrange the potato slices on another lined baking tray. Drizzle with olive oil and season with salt, pepper and rosemary.Bake the peppers and potato in the oven for about 20 minutes or until they are both tender. Set aside.On a floured surface, roll out 500g of the pastry to about 5mm (2/5in) thick. Transfer the pastry to a 20cm (8in) deep cake tin. Press the pastry against the bottom and sides to form a crust. Cut off any overhang. Use a fork to prick the bottom.Bake the pie crust in the oven for 10 minutes and set aside.Meanwhile, sauté the onion and garlic with a little olive oil until soft and fragrant. Set aside half the mixture.Add the greens to the saucepan with half of the onion and garlic mixture and cook until wilted. Set aside in a food processor.Add the mushrooms and remaining onion and garlic mixture to the saucepan. Cook until soft and fragrant. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.Add the firm tofu, nutritional yeast and nutmeg to the spinach or kale mixture. Pulse until the mixture forms coarse crumbs. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.To assemble the pie, press the spinach or kale and tofu mixture into the bottom of the pie. Layer with the peppers, then potatoes then the mushroom mixture.Roll out the remaining pastry on a floured surface in a circular shape. Transfer the pastry to cover the pie and cut off the overhang. Press the edges together. Use any excess pastry to make shapes for decoration.Brush the top of the pie with melted butter or olive oil and bake for 30 minutes or until the top is golden brown. Leave the pie to cool in the tin for 20 minutes, then take it out to cool.
