Title: Green pea and coconut soup with soy sunflower seeds (pictured above)
Description: This is everything I want in the depths of winter, but it’s also one to earmark for summer, when it works just as well chilled. It’s delicious with a slice of toasted ciabatta or some cooked rice noodles.
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: Serves 4
Prep: 30 minutes
Cook: 35 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: soup
Image: 
Ingredients: 
	3 tbsp olive oil
	2 sticks celery, trimmed and finely chopped (140g)
	2 leeks, trimmed and finely chopped (170g)
	3 banana shallots, peeled and finely chopped (110g)
	3 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed
	Fine sea salt and black pepper
	2 makrut lime leaves
	2 sticks lemongrass, bashed
	1 x 400ml tin full-fat coconut milk
	500g frozen peas, defrosted
	For the soy seeds
	40g sunflower seeds
	40g olive oil
	20g piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely chopped
	1/4 tsp chilli flakes
	1 tbsp soy sauce
Instructions: 
	Put a large saucepan on a medium-high heat, add the oil, celery, leeks, shallots, garlic and a half-teaspoon of salt, and cook, stirring frequently, for 10-12 minutes, until the vegetables are soft but not coloured.
	Stir in the lime leaves, lemongrass and plenty of ground black pepper, and cook, stirring constantly to prevent the mix catching, for two minutes more. Stir in the coconut milk and 1.2 litres of water, bring to a boil, then turn down the heat to medium and leave to simmer gently for 20 minutes.
	While the soup is simmering, make the soy seeds. Put the sunflower seeds, oil, ginger and chilli in a small saucepan on a medium high heat. When they start to sizzle, turn down the heat to medium and fry gently for five minutes, until the ginger and seeds turn golden. Tip out into a small ramekin or bowl and stir in the soy.
	Put the peas in a large heatproof bowl or jug with half a teaspoon of salt. Remove and discard the lemongrass and lime leaves from the soup pot, then pour the soup over the peas. Working in two or three batches, blitz the soup in a blender for two or so minutes a batch, until smooth and pale green, then pour back into the saucepan and reheat if necessary.
	To serve, divide the hot soup between four bowls and swirl in the seeds.