Title: Harira Recipe
Description: Harira is a classic Moroccan lentil and chickpea soup with fresh herbs and loads of warm spices. This satisfying vegetarian soup is even better the next day, so it is the perfect make-ahead pot to feed a little crowd. I typically serve it with lemon slices and warm pita bread.
Source: Suzy Karadsheh
Original URL: https://www.themediterraneandish.com/harira-recipe/#wprm-recipe-container-38058
Yield: 6,6 people (up to)
Prep: 15 minutes
Cook: 45 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: soup
Image: https://www.themediterraneandish.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/harira-recipe-8.jpg
Ingredients: 
	Extra virgin olive oil
	1 large yellow onion (finely chopped)
	2 celery stalks (chopped)
	1 carrot (peeled and chopped)
	Kosher salt
	4 garlic cloves (minced)
	1 1/2 teaspoons black pepper
	1 1/2 teaspoon turmeric
	1 teaspoon cumin
	1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
	1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
	1/2 teaspoon cayenne
	2 14- ounce cans crushed tomatoes
	3 tablespoons tomato paste
	240 ml packed chopped fresh cilantro
	240 ml green lentils, (rinsed)
	240 ml red lentils, (rinsed)
	1 14- ounce can chickpeas
	1680 ml vegetable or chicken stock, (preferably low-sodium)
	60 ml long grain rice, rinsed (or 1/4 cup broken vermicelli)
	Lemon wedges, (for serving)
Instructions: 
	In a large Dutch Oven, heat 4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil over medium heat until shimmering. Add the onions, celery, and carrots. Season with kosher salt. Cook for 5 minutes, stirring regularly until softened.
	Add the garlic and spices and cook for a couple of 1 to 2 minutes, stirring regularly.
	Add the crushed tomatoes, tomato paste, cilantro, lentils (both green and red), and chickpeas. Add a dash more kosher salt and cook for 5 minutes, stirring.
	Add the broth and raise the heat. Bring to a boil for 5 minutes, then turn the heat to low. Cover and let simmer for 45 minutes or until the legumes are fully cooked and very tender (check occasionally and plan to add more stock or water. The soup will be thick, but it should not be too thick that you cannot pour it. Make sure to adjust the salt as you add more liquid.)
	Stir in the rice and cook for another 15 or until the rice is fully cooked.
	Serve with lemon wedges.
