Title: Hoisin Garlic Noodles
Description: Fans of garlic noodles and soy sauce noodles rejoice: Here is a new, weeknight-friendly noodle dish for your repertoire. A staple Cantonese ingredient, thick and fragrant hoisin sauce is often used as a glaze for meat, but also serves as a robust, sweet and salty seasoning for these noodles. The garlic is bloomed briefly in oil, which tames its pungency and unlocks a rich, nutty flavor. Allow the noodles to cook undisturbed for a few minutes to crisp underneath, adding texture and a hint of smokiness. This recipe calls for dried wheat or egg noodles, but if you don’t have Asian-style noodles on hand, you could substitute with spaghetti or linguine. Bulk up the noodles with tofu, eggs or whatever vegetables you have on hand; these noodles welcome toppings.
Source: Hetty Lui McKinnon
Original URL: https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1026260-hoisin-garlic-noodles
Yield: 4 servings
Prep: 5 minutes
Cook: 20 minutes
Total: 25 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: Noodles
Image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2025/04/17/multimedia/hm-hoisin-garlic-noodles-cblh/hm-hoisin-garlic-noodles-cblh-threeByTwoMediumAt2X.jpg
Ingredients: 
	Salt and pepper
	396.9g dried wheat or egg noodles
	60 ml hoisin sauce
	2 tablespoons soy sauce
	1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil
	2 teaspoons maple syrup or honey
	Vegetable oil
	6 medium garlic cloves, finely chopped
	6 scallions, white and green parts separated, thinly sliced
	4 tablespoons toasted white sesame seeds
Instructions: 
	Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the noodles and cook according to package instructions until al dente. Drain and rinse until the noodles are cool.
	Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine hoisin sauce, soy sauce, sesame oil and maple syrup; set aside.
	Heat a large 12-inch skillet on medium-high for 2 minutes. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons of oil along with the garlic and white parts of the scallions. Stir until fragrant, about 30 seconds (but don’t let the garlic burn!). Immediately add the sauce and then the noodles, and toss well until the noodles are evenly coated.
	Leave the noodles to cook, undisturbed, until they start sticking to the pan and the bottom looks crispy, 2 to 3 minutes. Taste and season with salt (if needed) and pepper.
	To serve, transfer to bowls and top with the sesame seeds and the green parts of the scallions.
