Title: Masala potatoes on red lentil pancakes
Description: Masala potatoes on red lentil pancakes is an easy midweek meal that lends itself well to bulk prep. It is easy to make, nutritious, healthy, vegan and gluten-free.
Source: Ania
Original URL: https://www.lazycatkitchen.com/masala-potatoes-red-lentil-pancakes/
Yield: makes 6
Prep: 30 minutes
Cook: 30 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://cdn77-s3.lazycatkitchen.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/masala-potatoes-red-lentil-pancakes-macro.jpg
Ingredients: 
	650g / 23 oz raw potatoes (or 500 g / 17 1/2 oz cooked)
	15-30 ml / 1-2 tbsp frying oil
	1 tsp black mustard seeds
	1 tsp cumin seeds
	salt, to season
	8 dry (or fresh) curry leaves
	1 tsp ground turmeric
	1 tsp garam masala
	thick vegan yoghurt / sour cream, shop-bought or see below
	shop bought chutney
	small bunch of coriander / cilantro, chopped
	165g / 1 cup red split lentils*, soaked overnight
	scant 1 tsp salt
	1/2 tsp baking powder*
	1 1/2 tbsp chickpea (besan) flour*
	OPTIONAL: 1 tsp each cumin, turmeric, coriander and 1/2 tsp ground chilli powder
	OPTIONAL: garlic clove + thick slice of ginger
	vegetable oil, for frying
	70g / 1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked for 20 minutes in boiling water
	1/2 lime, zest and juice (about 2 tbsp)
	salt and pepper, to taste
Instructions: 
	You can use yesterday's cooked potatoes for this. Otherwise, peel your potatoes, cut into 1.5 cm / 0.5" dice and boil in salted water until cooked but holding their shape (about 8 minutes for the starchy Maris Piper variety). Drain and allow them to cool off completely (overnight is ideal).
	Heat up a pan - I used a cast iron skillet - on a low-medium heat. Once hot add the oil and mustards seeds. Allow mustard seeds to crackle, then add cumin seeds, curry leaves and a generous pinch of salt to the oil. Fry for a few seconds before adding cubed potatoes.
	Fry the potatoes until uniformly browned, giving them a good stir from time to time.
	Dust finished potatoes with turmeric, garam masala and more salt if needed. Stir well to coat for a few seconds and switch the heat off so that the spices don't burn.
	Drain and rinse soaked lentils.
	Place drained lentils in a blender together with the rest of the ingredients (apart from oil) and approximately 300 ml / 1¼ cups of water - you may need a little less water if not using garlic or ginger. Process until smooth, the batter should be pourable but a little thicker than a crepe batter. You may need to add a touch more water if it's too thick.
	Heat up a tried and tested (that's important) non-stick pan on a low-medium heat, brush it with a bit (I found ½ tsp to be enough on my ceramic pancake pan) of oil using a silicone brush.
	Pour ¼ cup of the mixture onto the hot pan and use the back of the spoon to spread the mixture out in a circular fashion. Cook each pancake for about 3 minutes on one side and then flip. Cook for 2-3 minutes on the other side. If you like your pancakes crispy, spread the batter thinly and cook the pancake for a little longer.
	Keep the cooked pancakes in a stack in a warm oven while making the rest.
	Fill with masala potatoes, dollops of vegan cream / yoghurt, favourite chutney and heaps of fresh coriander / cilantro.
	Place drained cashews, lime zest and juice, salt and pepper and about 45 ml / 3 tbsp water in a small blender (I use a Ninja blender for this).
	Blend until smooth. If using a standard blender you may need to make a double quantity.
