Title: Potato Scones (AKA Tattie Scones)
Description: Potato Scones, AKA "Tattie Scones", are one of my favorite Scottish inventions. They are the perfect way to use up leftover mashed potato, and they are an absolute treat.
Source: 
Original URL: https://howtomakedinner.com/blog/potato-scones/#recipe
Yield: 8,8 servings
Prep: 15 minutes
Cook: 15 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://howtomakedinner.com/wp-content/uploads/tattie-scones-featured.jpg
Ingredients: 
	480 ml mashed potato (cold)
	80 ml flour (all-purpose)
	1 pinch salt
	1 pinch black pepper
	2 tablespoons oil (for frying)
Instructions: 
	Making the Potato Scone dough:
	Add cooled mashed potatoes, flour, salt, and pepper to a bowl or a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, and mix until just combined. The dough should not stick to your hands, and it should be firm enough to roll with a rolling pin.
	Shaping the Potato Scones:
	Transfer the mashed potato dough mixture onto a lightly floured surface, press into a rough, flattened ball, and use a rolling pin with ample flour to roll it out to 1/4-1/3 inch thick. *See recipe notes for alternate shaping method!
	Dip a large (4 inch), round cookie cutter in some flour and use it to cut the potato scones out of the dough. Continue reshaping and rolling out the dough until you have used it all up. You should get approximately 8 scones.
	Cooking the Potato Scones:
	Heat a nonstick skillet over medium heat, or an electric griddle to 350F.
	Add the oil to the pan, and gently lower in the potato scones a few at a time, leaving plenty of room in between them. If you are using an electric griddle, you may be able to fit them all in one batch.
	Allow the potato scones to brown on one side for 2-4 minutes, then flip to brown the other side.
	Once browned on both sides, transfer the potato scones to a cooling rack to cool.
	Repeat with the rest of the scones, adding more oil to the pan as needed. There should be enough oil to sizzle around the edges of the scones.
	Enjoy right away, or store for up to 3 days in the fridge and reheat in a toaster oven, air fryer, or frying pan as desired.
