Title: Quick Masala Dosa
Description: An easy recipe for instant Masala Dosa, a south Indian crepe of lentils and rice with a savory filling of potatoes and colorful bell peppers. The batter comes together in five minutes with no soaking or blending involved. Serve it for a snack or a full meal.
Source: 
Original URL: https://holycowvegan.net/quick-masala-dosa/#recipe
Yield: 6,6 servings (about 2 dosas each)
Prep: 10 minutes
Cook: 18 minutes
Total: 28 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://holycowvegan.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/quick-masala-dosa-7.jpg
Ingredients: 
	240 ml besan ((chickpea flour))
	240 ml whole wheat flour
	1/4 tsp baking soda
	Salt to taste
	6 medium potatoes ((skins scrubbed clean))
	1 medium onion ((finely diced))
	2 tsp vegetable oil
	1 tsp mustard seeds
	2 dry red chili peppers ((broken into pieces))
	2 bell peppers ((Use any color or a mix of colors. I used red))
	1 tbsp ginger ((grated))
	1/2 tsp ground black pepper
	Juice of half a lemon
	Salt to taste
	120 ml cilantro ((finely chopped))
	Coconut Chutney
Instructions: 
	Make the potato sabzi:
	Boil the potatoes in their jackets until a fork inserted in the thickest portion goes cleanly through. Dice the potatoes into a fairly small dice. I leave the skins on because I love them, but you can peel your potatoes if you'd rather.
	Heat the oil in a wok or a large saucepan
	Add the mustard seeds and when they crackle, add the red chili peppers and onions.
	Saute, stirring frequently, until the onion just starts to turn color
	Add the ginger and saute a few more seconds. Add the diced bell peppers and ground black pepper.
	Cook, stirring occasionally, for about five minutes or until the peppers start to soften. Add the potatoes.
	Let the potatoes cook over medium-high heat until they start to form a crust at the bottom. Stir a few times so they don't stick. With a potato masher or a heavy ladle, mash the potatoes slightly.
	Season with salt and stir in the lemon juice.
	Sprinkle the cilantro and mix.
	Make the masala dosa:
	Mix the flours, baking soda and salt in a bowl with enough water to make a runny batter. You want something far runnier than a pancake batter because you want to spread it fairly thin.
	Heat a griddle over medium-high heat. Using a round-bottomed ladle, pour about half a cup of batter into the center of the griddle. Quickly, spread outward in a circular motion with the bottom of the ladle. You want your dosa to be fairly thin if you like it crispy.
	Sprinkle or spray some oil around the edges. Cook until the top is dry and the edges are browned. Remove to a plate.
	Place the stuffing inside the dosa, fold over, and serve with chutney.
