Title: Smokehouse Chickpeas 'N' Greens Salad From 'Salad Samurai'
Description: I love chickpeas. I'll eat them every which way, and sometimes right out of the can. But I don't usually do much to them before adding them to a dish. In this salad from her new vegan cookbook, Salad Samurai, Terry Hope Romero inspires me to do more. To make them the star of this show, she fries them until golden, and pours on a BBQ-inspired marinade that coats the now crispy chickpeas with smoky-sweet flavor.
Source: Maggie Mariolis
Original URL: https://www.seriouseats.com/smokehouse-chickpeas-n-greens-salad-from-sala
Yield: 2
Total: 45 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://s.wordpress.com/mshots/v1/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.seriouseats.com%2Fsmokehouse-chickpeas-n-greens-salad-from-sala?w=1200
Ingredients: 
	For the Roasted BBQ Chickpeas:
	2 tablespoons olive oil
	1 (14-ounce) can chickpeas, drained and rinsed
	1 tablespoon tamari
	1 rounded tablespoon tomato paste
	1 tablespoon pure maple syrup
	1 teaspoon liquid smoke (preferably hickory)
	2 tablespoons nutritional yeast
	For the Salad:
	1440 ml baby spinach or mixed salad greens
	1 red onion, thinly sliced
	1/2 pint cherry tomatoes, sliced in half
	1 big, ripe avocado, diced
	120 ml julienned carrot
	Freshly ground black pepper to taste
	For the Smoked Paprika Dressing:
	2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
	1 tablespoon olive oil
	1 shallot, minced
	1 tablespoon pure maple syrup
	1 1/2 teaspoons smoked sweet or hot paprika
	1/2 teaspoon smoked salt or regular salt
Instructions: 
	Preheat a large skillet over medium-high heat, then pour in the olive oil and tilt the pan to coat the bottom with oil. Add chickpeas and fry for about 6 minutes, or until golden. Whisk together tamari, tomato paste, maple syrup, and liquid smoke. Pour over chickpeas, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally. Turn off heat and cover to keep warm.
	Meanwhile, tear greens into bite-size pieces, wash, and spin dry. Transfer to a large salad bowl and add onion, tomatoes, avocado, and carrot. Whisk together all of dressing ingredients and pour over salad. Toss vegetables to coat with dressing and divide salad among serving bowls.
	Sprinkle nutritional yeast over warm chickpeas and stir to coat. Top salad with hot chickpeas and a twist of freshly ground black pepper to taste, and serve it up!
