Title: Vegan Hummingbird Cake
Description: An incredible Vegan Hummingbird Cake! It's fluffy, incredibly flavourful, super sweet and bursting with banana, pineapple and pecans then smothered in silky, luscious cream cheese frosting.
Source: 
Original URL: https://avirtualvegan.com/vegan-hummingbird-cake/#recipe
Yield: 14,14 servings
Prep: 30 minutes
Cook: 45 minutes
Total: 1 hour and 15 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: First Section
Image: https://avirtualvegan.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Vegan-Hummingbird-Cake-22.jpg
Ingredients: 
	780 ml + 2 teaspoons (410 grams) all-purpose flour (, (use plain flour in the UK))
	300 grams brown sugar (, dark or light brown both work well)
	100 grams granulated white or cane sugar
	35 grams finely shredded coconut (, optional can be safely omitted)
	6 tablespoons ground flaxseed
	1 tablespoon baking powder
	1 1/4 teaspoon baking soda ((bicarbonate of soda in the UK))
	2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
	1 tsp allspice (, or 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg)
	1 teaspoon fine salt
	430 grams mashed banana (, about 4 medium bananas)
	180 ml (180 mls) liquid oil (of choice (avocado, sunflower, vegetable, canola oil etc))
	120 ml (120 mls) unsweetened dairy-free milk
	60 ml (60 mls) pineapple juice (, from the can is fine)
	1 tablespoon (15 mls) apple cider vinegar
	1 tablespoon (15 mls) vanilla extract
	1 packed cup (195 grams) drained canned pineapple pieces or crushed pineapple
	200 grams chopped pecans (, divided )
	227 grams vegan cream cheese (, I use Tofutti)
	110 grams vegan butter
	4 teaspoons arrowroot powder (or cornstarch (arrowroot works best))
	1/8 teaspoon fine salt
	5 ml vanilla extract (, Do not use more)
	500 to 625 grams powdered sugar ((icing sugar in the UK))
Instructions: 
	Preheat oven 350 °F (175 °C) and have a shelf positioned in the middle of the oven.
	Grease and line the bottoms of two 9-inch cake pans and set them aside.
	To a large mixing bowl add all of the dry ingredients except the pecan nuts. That's the flour, sugar, coconut, ground flaxseed, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice and salt. Whisk them together well.
	If you haven't already, mash the banana to a puree in a medium sized bowl.
	To the banana add the oil, milk, pineapple juice, apple cider vinegar, vanilla and chopped pineapple. Mix them together well. It will probably curdle a bit. That's fine.
	Have the pecans and your cake pans ready and near you, as once the batter is mixed together you need to work fast.
	Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and stir together gently with a spatula to combine. The batter will be thick. Make sure to get right into the bottom of the bowl to get all of the dry ingredients. Don't beat it or overmix the batter. Treat it gently but work quickly. The sooner you get it in the oven the better your cakes will be.
	Fold in half of the chopped pecan nuts (you can eye-ball it. It doesn't have to be absolutely exact) then immediately spoon the batter evenly between the 2 cake pans.
	Give the pans a little shake to level the batter out, then put them in the oven on the middle shelf and bake for 45 minutes, or until a skewer, toothpick or thin knife inserted into the middle comes out clean.
	Remove from the oven and place the cakes still in their pans on a wire rack and allow them to cool completely. Don't remove them from the pans.
	Cream Cheese Frosting:
	Add the vegan butter to a large bowl and beat it with an electric mixer on a medium-high speed until soft and fluffy.
	Add the cream cheese and beat again until combined and smooth but don't over-beat. As soon as it's combined stop.
	Now add the arrowroot powder, salt, vanilla and about 2 cups of powdered sugar. Beat on the lowest speed for about 20 seconds until the powdered sugar has stopped flying around, then add another 2 cups. Beat again on low until it's mostly combined then turn the speed up to medium-high again and beat until smooth and creamy, scraping down the edges with a spatula as needed to get any dry powdered sugar off the sides and into the mix.
	Add the remaining powdered sugar to thicken as needed. Using it all makes the frosting much easier to handle, spread and pipe.
	As soon as it's nice and smooth stop. It's important not to over-beat. Do not be tempted to add any more liquid to the frosting at any stage because it will become too runny. Once done, cover the bowl and put it in the fridge until needed.
	Assembly:
	Place one cake layer on your cake stand or serving plate flat side up. Evenly spread the top with a thick layer of cream cheese frosting.
	Place the other sponge cake on top, flat side down. Spread the remaining frosting all over the top and sides.
	Garnish with the remaining chopped pecans.
	I recommend refrigerating the cake for at least 30 minutes before attempting to cut it to give the frosting time to firm a little and make slicing neater and easier.
