Title: Vegan Pastitsio (Greek Lasagna)
Description: This deliciously layered Greek pasta bake is sure to become a next family favourite. Great for feeding a crowd and is freezer-friendly.
Source: Jhanelle Golding
Original URL: https://www.fromthecomfortofmybowl.com/vegan-pastitsio/
Yield: 10
Prep: 25 minutes
Cook: 1 hour and 50 minutes
Total: 2 hours and 15 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: pasta
Image: https://www.fromthecomfortofmybowl.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/vegan-pastitsio-recipe.jpg
Ingredients: 
	2 tsp olive oil
	453.6g vegan ground meat ( I used Beyond Meat)
	240 ml cooked lentils (red, brown or green)
	2 medium onions (chopped or minced)
	3 cloves garlic (minced)
	2 tbsp tomato paste
	120 ml red wine or broth
	2 tsp Better Than Bouillon Vegetable Base ((See Notes))
	1 can crushed tomatoes (15oz can, or fresh)
	1 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon (or 1 cinnamon stick)
	3/4 tsp ground Allspice
	1/2 tsp ground cloves
	1 tsp dried thyme (or 2 tsp fresh thyme)
	2 bay leaves
	1/2 bunch fresh parsley (chopped, about a handful)
	1 tsp sugar (or to taste)
	salt and pepper (to taste)
	5 tbsp vegan butter or margarine
	180 ml all-purpose flour
	600 ml soy milk (or oat milk)
	1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
	2 tsp lemon juice (or 1/4 tsp vegan lactic acid)
	4 tbsp nutritional yeast (adds a slightly cheesy flavour but it's optional)
	salt and pepper (to taste)
	255.1g bucatini pasta
	salt (to boil the pasta)
	3 tbsp nutritional yeast
	1 tbsp vegan butter or margarine
	2 tsp olive oil (for the casserole dish)
Instructions: 
	Make the veggie meat sauce:
	Heat the oil in a large sauce pan at medium heat and add the Beyond Meat. Cook until browned then add the onion and garlic.
	Cook until the onions are translucent then add spices, sugar, tomato paste and bouillon paste. Cook for a few seconds until the spices become fragrant then stir in the red wine.
	Add the tomatoes, cooked lentils and herbs. Season with salt and pepper. Allow it to simmer uncovered on low heat for 15 to 20 minutes or until the most of the liquid has evaporated.
	Taste and adjust the seasoning as needed, then remove from heat.
	Make the béchamel sauce:
	Melt the vegan butter in a saucepan over low heat. Gradually stir in the flour to form a paste called a roux. Cook for about 1 minute or until slightly tan in colour.
	Slowly add the soy milk and stir quickly to reduce lumps. Continue stirring while it thickens then add the nutmeg, lemon juice, nutritional yeast, salt and pepper.
	Make the pasta:
	Boil the dried pasta in salted water for 2 minutes less than the packet instructions for al dente.
	Preheat the oven to 190˚C or 370˚F.
	Drain the pasta well and add to a large mixing bowl. Add the nutritional yeast and vegan butter then toss to coat evenly.
	Assemble and bake:
	Oil the casserole dish then add the pasta. Lay them in the same direction for more uniform slices.
	Add the vegan meat sauce and spread it evenly.
	Pour in the béchamel and spread evenly.
	Place in the oven and bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour until the top is lightly browned or forms a crust on top.
	Cool for 20 minutes for easier slicing and serving.
