Title: Vegan Celeriac Soup with Apple, Lemon & Thyme
Description: This creamy vegan celeriac soup combines delicate flavours to provide a simple yet delicious bowl of goodness that's both gluten-free and dairy-free.
Source: The Pesky Vegan
Original URL: https://thepeskyvegan.com/recipes/vegan-celeriac-soup/
Yield: 6
Prep: 10 minutes
Cook: 35 minutes
Total: 45 minutes
Cookbook: First Cookbook
Section: soup
Image: https://thepeskyvegan.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/vegan-celeriac-soup-apple-lemon-thyme-cashew-cream.jpg
Ingredients: 
	1 tablespoon olive oil
	2 onions, chopped
	1 medium celeriac, peeled and diced ((approx. 1.5 lb / 700 grams))
	2 large eating apples, peeled, cored, and diced ((or 3 medium))
	1 medium potato, peeled and diced ((optional))
	1.2 litres vegan stock
	1 teaspoon dried thyme
	2 bay leaves
	3 tablespoons nutritional yeast
	200 ml plant-based milk
	Grated zest of 1 lemon ((save the juice to serve))
	Salt and pepper, to taste
	Small handful fresh parsley, to serve ((optional))
Instructions: 
	Heat the oil in a large saucepan on medium heat and add the chopped onions. Season with salt and pepper and cook for 5-6 minutes, stirring now and then until they start to soften.
	Next, add the diced celeriac, apple, and potato. Stir well and cook for a couple of minutes.
	Add the vegan stock, dried thyme, bay leaves, and nutritional yeast. Stir well, bring to a gentle simmer, and cook for 20 minutes.
	After 20 minutes, stir in the lemon zest and plant-based milk. Start with half of the zest and build from there depending on how much lemon flavour you want to come through. Cook for another 5 minutes or until the celeriac is tender. If necessary, add a little more water or stock.
	Once the celeriac is cooked through, turn off the heat, remove the bay leaves, and blitz until smooth using a hand blender (you could also transfer to a larger, more powerful blender).
	Adjust the seasoning and serve with homemade vegan cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and chopped fresh parsley. This is also delicious when topped off with crispy tofu pancetta.
